# Vanguard Submission: Team - LoCo Quantum

**Team members: Zhuo Cao, Zhongyi Jiang, Ran Xue**

---

## Overview

We solve the portfolio optimization task for 20 bonds provided by the Vanguard team. 

Our solution is a sample-based QAOA method relying on our pre-trained generated model namely generative quantum sampling (GQS). The whole process is implemented by `Pennylane`. For running our scripts, please configure a virtual environment by:

```
pip install requirements.txt
```

With significantly low training cost (i.e. only 10 epochs), our pre-trained model successfully samples the optimal combination validated by the classical method. 

The technical report can be found at `./LoCoQuantum_PortfolioOpt_Report.pdf`. 

## Details

The jupyter note book `gpt_qc.ipynb` is the main entry and the runtime of the entire process including both the pre-training and the evaluations.

The objective function and constraints subtracted from the provided CPLEX file are stored in the folder `./data`. The `data_handler.py` was intended to generate the mocked data in the beginning and is only employed here for the baseline calculation of real datasets.

The gate pool for training the GPT model and for the evaluation is generated by the script `quantum_operators.py`. All gates and the quantum circuits are implemented by `Pennylane`.

We employ the GPT model for the quantum circuits generation. Its original structure is defined by the script `model.py` and subject to minor modifications for the pre-training and the evaluations in the runtime.

We also upload the best model that we trained and used for writing up the report. For reproducing our results, please load the pre-trained model `./checkpoint/best_model.pt` by running the following line:

```python
loaded = torch.load("./checkpoints/best_model.pt", weights_only=False)
```

The classical benchmark is accomplished and summarized in the jupyter notebook `classic_opt.ipynb` corresponding to the table listed in the end of the technical report.

## Supplements:

**Project deck:**

We summarize our solution with slides in
`./LoCoQuantum_PortfolioOpt_ProjDeck.pdf`

**Video:**

In addition, the explanatory video can be found at:
`./LoCoQuantum_PortfolioOpt.mp4`


